it is 13 GMT thank you for joining us we
begin with renewed diplomatic efforts to
reach a ceasefire in Gaza as Israeli
bombardment of the strip continues US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin is in
Saudi Arabia where he's been meeting
with regional counterparts blinkin says
there has been measurable progress in
the humanitarian situation in Gaza in
recent weeks Washington's top Diplomat
says there's an urgent need for a
ceasefire to stop the suffering of
Palestinians and he says President Joe
Biden is urging Israel to take all
necessary steps to prevent civilian
harm the most effective way to address
the humanitarian crisis in Gaz to
alleviate the suffering of children
women and men and to create space for a
more just and durable solution uh is to
get uh ceas fire and H home President
Biden has insisted that Israel take
specific
concrete measurable steps to better
address humanitarian suffering civilian
harm and the
safety while in his seventh visit to the
region since October blinkin has been
holding talks with leaders from the GCC
on gaza's governance and reconstruction
after the war the gulf Corporation
Council is calling for Israel's military
operation in Rafa to be stopped with an
immediate truce in Gaza qatar's prime
minister and foreign min Minister says
any escalation of the conflict threatens
peace in the region Lincoln's visit
comes as Hamas negotiators are expected
to meet katari and Egyptian mediators in
Cairo the ongoing talks and
consultations and coordination of
positions is very important for boosting
our strategic relations and dealing with
the dangerous situation in the Middle
East a lot of efforts must be exerted to
sort out the military escalation for the
sake of all countries in our region we
need to bring peace to the Middle East
the International Community has failed
to find a solution to the Palestinian
cause thus we now see the Bloodshed
everywhere and every day in the Gaza
Strip Al jazer Hashim Al following all
these latest diplomatic developments
Forest joins us now on the NewsHour I
saw a great deal of diplomacy in the
region in Cairo in Saudi Arabia a lot of
different strands it would seem what is
the common purpose what what is the
objective today the Americans are hoping
to achieve a a ceasefire agreement
between Hamas and Israel and this
explains why Hamas has dispatched its um
Deputy uh leader KH along with the team
in Cairo to try to pin down the details
of that
agreement the the Americans are hoping
that this could be conducive to
something broader more stability in the
region but also the potential for a
broader normalization between key Arab
countries and the Israelis but now it
was interesting to hear Anthony blinkin
saying that the Israelis have offered
Hamas an
extraordinarily generous deal and that
Hamas should accept the terms of that
deal Hamas has has been dismissing
itself dismissing uh accusation it was
delaying the the deal saying that there
are legitimate demands which need to be
met and because their main condition is
that there's still a permanent ceasefire
in exactly the Americans still talk
about calm Hamas says we need an
indication of a over ceas fire prolonged
ceasefire permanent ceasefire this is
something they are trying to pin down
also they asking for guarantees that the
Israeli Army is going to pull out
partially start partial P pulling
withdrawal from Gaza that could be
conducive to a complete pull out for the
strip before they commit themselves to a
final agreement with Israel now I've
been talking to people about the chances
for this to happen anytime soon and they
say we'll just remain cautiously
optimistic about the potential for any
breakthrough I have to say that
frustration is taking over more than a
sense of optimism about a deal anytime
soon we certainly uh have heard some
frustration from the mediators from
Qatar for example uh which has been
involved in these negotiations they do
yeah they do they've been waiting for
this to happen over the last few months
only to see conflicting statements from
the different parties to the point where
the qataris have been saying that we
might reconsider our role as a key
mediator if this doesn't happen and they
all also would tell you that one of the
key reasons why they're frustrated over
this because they believe that both
parties
uh are using this to for maximum
political benefits to the point where
they also say that we can tell clearly
that for Benjamin Netanyahu his
political survival is more important to
him now than a permanent agreement with
Hamas now another interesting aspect of
the meeting uh in Riyad between uh
blinkin and and the regional leaders
there is this idea of normalization with
Saudi Arabia which was on the table
before the war on Gaza began on October
the 7th and it's still it seems being
talked about because we heard blinkin
mention it but how can they talk about
normalization when there is an actual
conflict there there is a reason why
they would like to see that happen with
Saudi Arabia it's the protector of Sunni
Islam the most powerful Sunni Nation on
Earth two it has the two holiest places
in Islam Mecca and Medina if Saudi
Arabia is on board and normalizes with
the Israelis you will see many many Arab
and Muslim countries follow suit now
after October the 7th attacks the Saudi
started to make a statement saying that
basically they would they would like to
wait until the Israelis solve the
Palestinian issue but having said that
today the Americans in Riyad are hoping
to achieve two things reconstruction of
Gaza this is where they would like to
get more financial commitments from Gulf
Nations But ultimately the final goal
along with the
normalization is to have a consensus
among Arab Nations particularly the gulf
countries that a new Palestinian
Authority is going to be tasked with
taking over Gaza and that hamas's era
comes to an end Hashim thank you very
much always good to get your Insight on
all this Hashim AEL Bara now let's go
straight to our correspondent another of
our correspondents Bernard Smith who's
in occupied East Jerusalem burned as we
heard from Hashim there Hamas allegation
due in Cairo for these ceasefire talks
that are doing what about the Israelis
will they be
joining well the Israelis have a
delegation ready to go to Cairo tomorrow
that's Tuesday that depends on what the
response from Hamas to Israel's proposal
is you heard there again Anthony blinkin
calling it an extraordinary
extraordinarily generous proposal now
it's understood that the Israelis are
asking for fewer than about 40 of the
130 or so captives being held by Hamas
and in return for that they'll release
Palestinian prisoners and there'll be a
moved to a second phase of a truce which
will offer this a period of sustained
calm the wording is very important there
because we know that Hamas has been
insisting throughout previous talks that
they get a complete end to hostilities
and the removal of Israeli forces from
Gaza so that Palestinians can return to
the homes particularly in the north of
Gaza so will this offer of a period of
sustained calm be enough for Hamas uh
considering that they've been asking for
this permanent ceasefire we expect to
hear what Hamas have to say in the next
coming 24 hours or so ultimately it's up
to Yaya shinoa hamas's leader in Gaza he
always has the final call on these
things thank you very much Bernard
Bernard Smith reporting there live from
occupied Easter
Jerusalem make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz